# A Minimum Viable Product
Currently, Knowledge-Graph-Building-Blocks exist only as a concept that I have been working on for several years (for a brief description, see below). I always wanted to develop a working prototype, a minimum viable product (MVP), as a proof of concept, but my lack of programming skills prevented me from doing so. Therefore, I decided to learn programming and started with learning Python during my Easter vacation 2021. I started to develop a MVP that implemented the concept of KGBBs. What you see here is the result of 3 months of development time spent in my spare time. Since I am an absolute beginner without any programming experience and taught myself everything, the code certainly leaves something to be desired and also leaves ample room for improvement. Anyhow, I nevertheless think that the application I developed demonstrates the potential of Knowledge Graph Building Blocks.

If you want to run this application on your local machine, you must copy all files onto your machine. You also have to install Neo4j desktop (at least Version 4.2.4 with APOC plugin) and add a user with username:python, password:useCaseKGBB, and the roles admin and PUBLIC. Connection should be possible via uri: bolt://localhost:7687. You can then access the app via localhost:5000.


# Knowledge-Graph-Building-Blocks

The basis of the concept of Knowledge Graph Building Blocks is the organization and structuring of the overall data graph of a knowledge graph into semantically meaningful subgraphs, i.e. semantic units, each of which is represented in the graph by its own resource (i.e. node). Currently, 6 basic categories of such semantic units are distinguished: entry, topic, assertion, dataset, list, and granularity tree units. The partitioning of the data graph into smaller manageable semantic units provides solutions to seven problems that many knowledge graph applications must face and help to enforce machine-actionability and human-readability and thus FAIRness of data and metadata in a knowledge graph.

1) Machines need more information than human readers and human readers don't want to look at complex graphs
2) Many software developers do not know SPARQL/Cypher query language and do not want to learn it
3) Using knowledge graphs is not a guarantee for interoperability and FAIRness of their contents
4) Different communities often follow different data standards, even for the same type of data
5) Making statements about statements can be challenging 
6) Knowledge graphs may not scale well with continuously incoming streams of data
7) Importing semantically unstructured (legacy) data from a tabular format (CSV, Excell sheets) into a FAIR knowledge graph is not a trivial task

In order to meet the requirements of findability and interoperability of data and metadata, it is crucial that the same graph pattern is applied for modeling the same type of information. This can be achieved using languages for describing patterns, such as the Shapes Constraint Language SHACL and DASH or the Reasonable Ontology Templates ottr, with which graph patterns can be defined. Unfortunately, these languages do not fully provide the functionality that we often need for efficiently managing our data. Moreover, they have been developed for RDF and not for labeled property graphs such as Neo4j (although translations tools exist). This is one of the reasons why we developed the concept of a Knowledge Graph Building Block (KGBB), which represents a construct that provides information for a knowledge graph application regarding graph patterns, data queries, and the representation of data for human-readability. 

# The general idea
Knowledge Graph Building Blocks (KGBBs) are knowledge graph processing modules with which knowledge graphs can be managed. Each type of semantic unit that the knowledge graph application must distinguish has its own KGGB that is specified in reference to this semantic unit. The specifications of each KGBB can be used for managing and organizing all data belonging to the corresponding type of semantic unit in a knowledge graph. KGBBs provide:

1) graph patterns for storing data and metadata in a machine-actionable way in the graph, optimized for scalability (even allowing for storing in a tabular format), 
2) input controls for restricting user input, 
3) data views that specify how to represent the data of a semantic unit in a human-readable way in a user interface (UI), 
4) export schemas for exporting the data into various formats and following different established standards,  
5) pre-defined SPARQL/Cypher queries for identifying the subgraph belonging to a semantic unit and for exploring the graph in general, and
6) a fine-grained partition of the overall data graph that applies the concept of semantic units and partitions the data graph into semantically meaningful subgraphs which are classified and can be used for supporting data access and exploration as well as the import of unstructured data from, e.g., csv and excel files. 

Different KGBBs can be related to one another so that data newly added to one KGBB can trigger another KGBB to instantiate its corresponding data graph, thereby organizing and guiding the growth of the knowledge graph. Resources can be shared across different KGBBs for subsequent re-use in newly added semantic units and these newly added units are connected to the overall data graph through these resources. In other words, sets of KGBBs manage, organize, and structure a growing knowledge graph, resulting in an overall data graph that is organized and structured into different semantic units, allowing for making statements about statements, providing users with input forms and human-readable data representations in the UI, enforcing graph patterns for internal interoperability and machine-actionability of data and metadata, specifying data schemas for export with the possibility to add further schemas for newly upcoming standards, and providing generic predefined SPARQL/Cypher queries that can be used for searching and exploring the graph. KGBBs could even support the storage of data in a tabular format to meet the scalability requirements of large amounts of continuously incoming data such as from sensors. Moreover, with the specification of assertion, topic, entry, dataset, list, and granularity tree units, KGBBs can provide the basis for developing promising tools that support the import of unstructured data into a knowledge graph. KGBBs thus have the potential to provide solutions for all seven problems of knowledge graph applications mentioned above.

By relating different KGBBs to one another, the structure of the overall data graph can be specified in a highly modular and expandable way. An entry KGBB specifies the topic KGBBs that may be linked to an entry unit of that type. The KGBBs also specify possible relations between resources across different topic and assertion units. A topic KGBB specifies the assertion KGBBs that may be linked to a topic unit of this type and whether assertion units of some respective assertion KGBBs are required for the topic unit and thus MUST be provided (=the input form for the assertion unit must be fully completed) by users for adding the topic unit to an entry unit. They also specify whether the topic unit may contain only one or more assertion units of a specific assertion unit class and in which order they must be displayed in the UI. 

Each KGBB contains information about how the data graphs of its semantic units are instantiated by providing a generic predefined SPARQL/cypher query that allows the application to create a data graph according to a defined graph pattern. The query refers to a set of parameters that the application must provide for the query. In the same way, the corresponding assertion, topic, entry, dataset, list, or granularity tree unit class provides a predefined SPARAL/cypher query for identifying the data graph belonging to a semantic unit of that type and, especially in case of assertion KGBBs, one editing query for each node or relation in the data graph that can be edited by a user. Furthermore, KGBBs specify input-control information for possible user input.  

Each KGBB also provides information on how to translate the machine-actionable subgraphs that instantiate the KGBB into a data representation that is human-readable. A given KGBB can provide more than one such data representation (e.g., one for a smartphone app and one for an internet browser). 


